RoFILib/README.md, before:

# Dependencies

The following libraries need to be installed in order to run the program.

## Armadillo library

Math library used for matrix and vector representation.

### How to install

#### Apt-based systems

You can install the library from the package `libarmadillo-dev`

#### From sources

Follow [the installation notes](http://arma.sourceforge.net/download.html) on the library webpage.

## VTK library

Graphic library used for visualization.

### How to install

#### Apt-based systems

You can install the library from the package `libvtk6-dev`

#### From sources

Follow [the installation notes](https://www.vtk.org/Wiki/VTK/Configure_and_Build) on the library webpage.

What worked for me:

```
git clone git://vtk.org/VTK.git
mkdir VTK-build
cd VTK-build
cmake ../VTK
make -j4
```

In case you have sudo rights on your computer, VTK should be installed and should work with the provided CMakeLists.txt. Otherwise
you have to run cmake with an option `-DVTK_DIR=/path/to/VTK-build `.

## FFmpeg

Tool for creating videos from single pictures

### How to install

Follow [the installation notes](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) on the framework webpage.

# How to run the program

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
# cmake -DVTK_DIR=/path/to/VTK-build .. # If VTK was installed from sources
make
```

The make should create three executables: `rofi-test`, `rofi-vis` and `rofi-reconfig`.

## Visualizer

The tool can visualize configurations, create animations and save pictures.

The input file contains representation of one or more configurations separated by an empty line.

You can choose whether to visualize model(s) of configuration(s) in 3D on the screen 
or save picture(s) of configuration(s) using `-s` or `--save` option. You can also specify a path where to save the pictures using `-p` or `--path` option.

If there are more configurations in the input file, you can choose `-a` or `--animation` option which will generete smoother changes between the configurations. If you do not want to animate it, you have to use `-m` or `--many` to specify that there are more than one configuration in the file.

If the animation is chosen, you can specify:

* framerate of the animation using one of the `-f` or `--framerate` options
* angle velocity of modules using one of the `-o`, `--omega`, `-d` or `--degree` options
* reconnection time / number of pictures using one of the `-r`, `--recTime`, `-e` or `--recPics` options 

You can also specify settings for camera in a separate file. 
The file can contain following lines:

* `CP x y z`: camera position or
* `CPM xs xe ys ye zs ze`: camera position move xstart -> xend, ystart -> yend, zstart -> zend
* `CF x y z`: camera focal point or
* `CFM xs xe ys ye zs ze`: camera focal point move xstart -> xend, ystart -> yend, zstart -> zend
* `CV x y z`: camera view up or
* `CVM xs xe ys ye zs ze`: camera view up move xstart -> xend, ystart -> yend, zstart -> zend

Default values use mass center of the first configuration. 

```
RoFI Visualizer: Tool for visualization of configurations and creating animations.
Usage:
  rofi-vis [OPTION...]

  -h, --help           Print help
  -i, --input arg      Input config file
  -s, --save           Save picture to file
  -a, --animation      Create animation from configurations
  -c, --camera arg     Camera settings file
  -p, --path arg       Path where to save pictures
  -f, --framerate arg  Number of pictures per second
  -o, --omega arg      Maximal angular velocity in 1°/s
  -d, --degree arg     Maximal angle diff in ° per picture
  -r, --recTime arg    Time in seconds for reconnection
  -e, --recPics arg    Number of pictures for reconnection
  -m, --many           Many configurations in one file
```

Examples:

```
./rofi-vis -i ../data/test.in
```

Opens a new window with a visualization of the configuration.

```
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -s --path ../data/res -a 
```

Generates some intersteps (animation) and saves pictures to the ../data/res directory.

```
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -s --path ../data/res -a -c ../data/1.cam
```

Same as above with specified camera settings.

```
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -s --path ../data/res -a -c ../data/1.cam --omega 15 --recTime 2
```

## Reconfiguration

The tool allows to choose from different algorithms for the path computation.

You can choose the algorithm using `--alg` option with two possible arguments:
 
* `bfs`: BFS algorithm with given step size and parallel bound.
* `astar`: A* algorithm with given step size, parallel bound and evaluation function. 
* `rrt`: RRT algorithm with given step size.

More algorithms will be implemented in the future.

If the A* algorithm is chosen, you can choose from different evaluation functions:

* `trivial`: all configurations have value 1 (default).
* `dMatrix`: module matrices difference. Sum of differences of actual matrices from goal matrices.
* `dCenter`: module center difference. Sum of differences of actual centers from goal centers.
* `dJoint`: joint difference. Sum of differences of actual joints from goal joints. 
* `dAction`: action difference. Count of rotation actions and reconnection actions needed from 
actual configuration to goal configuration.

You can choose the step size (default 90), which defines the size of rotation of 
any joint in one reconfiguration step. Note that decreasing the step size will significantly 
increase the run time of the algorithm. Found solutions should be potentially longer.

You can choose how many actions can occur in parallel, which will allow more rotations 
and reconnections in one step. Note that increasing the paralle bound will significantly 
increase the runtime of the algorithm. Found solutions should be potentially shorter.  

```
./rofi-reconfig --help
RoFI Reconfiguration: Tool for computing a reconfiguration path.
Usage:
  rofi-reconfig [OPTION...]

  -h, --help          Print help
  -i, --init arg      Initial configuration file
  -g, --goal arg      Goal configuration file
  -s, --step arg      Rotation angle step size in range <0,90>
  -a, --alg arg       Algorithm for reconfiguration: bfs, astar, rrt
  -e, --eval arg      Evaluation function for A* algorithm: dMatrix, dCenter,
                      dJoint, dAction, trivial
  -p, --parallel arg  How many parallel actions are allowed: <1,...>
```

Examples:

```
./rofi-reconfig -i ../data/init.in -g ../data/goal.in
```

```
./rofi-reconfig -i ../data/init.in -g ../data/goal.in --alg astar --eval dCenter 
```

Writes a sequence of configurations starting with the initial and ending with the goal configuration.

## How to visualize the result of reconfiguration

```
./rofi-reconfig -i ../data/init.in -g ../data/goal.in > ../data/res.out
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -m
```

Writes a sequence of configurations to a separate file, then draws many `-m` configurations from one file. 

## How to create a video

Use script videoCreator.sh in visualizer directory.

```
./rofi-reconfig -i ../data/init.in -g ../data/goal.in > ../data/res.out
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -a -s --path ../data/res -c ../data/1.cam
cd ../visualizer
./videoCreator.sh -o ../data/animation/output.mp4
```

Writes sequence of configurations to a separate file, then saves pictures to ../data/res directory
and creates video output.mp4 in data/animation directory. 

You can specify the directory with saved pictures, framerate of the animation,
path + filename of the output animation and whether to clean the input directory - 
delete the pictures.


Options: 

```
  -h, --help         Prints help
  -i, --input        Directory with pictures to be animated
  -o, --output       Output file (path/videoName.mp4)
  -f, --framerate    Number of pictures per second
  -d, --delete       Delete pictures in the input directory
```

Examples: 

Spicify output file and input directory:

```
./videoCreator.sh -o ../data/animation/output.mp4 -i ../data/res
```

Specify output file, input directory and framerate:

```
./videoCreator.sh -o ../data/animation/output.mp4 -i ../data/res -f 24
```

Specify output file and delete pictures in input directory

```
./videoCreator.sh -o ../data/animation/output.mp4 -d
```

Commit message:

RoFILib: Add resolution and magnification option

RoFILib/README.md, after:

# Dependencies

The following libraries need to be installed in order to run the program.

## Armadillo library

Math library used for matrix and vector representation.

### How to install

#### Apt-based systems

You can install the library from the package `libarmadillo-dev`

#### From sources

Follow [the installation notes](http://arma.sourceforge.net/download.html) on the library webpage.

## VTK library

Graphic library used for visualization.

### How to install

#### Apt-based systems

You can install the library from the package `libvtk6-dev`

#### From sources

Follow [the installation notes](https://www.vtk.org/Wiki/VTK/Configure_and_Build) on the library webpage.

What worked for me:

```
git clone git://vtk.org/VTK.git
mkdir VTK-build
cd VTK-build
cmake ../VTK
make -j4
```

In case you have sudo rights on your computer, VTK should be installed and should work with the provided CMakeLists.txt. Otherwise
you have to run cmake with an option `-DVTK_DIR=/path/to/VTK-build `.

## FFmpeg

Tool for creating videos from single pictures

### How to install

Follow [the installation notes](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html) on the framework webpage.

# How to run the program

```
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
# cmake -DVTK_DIR=/path/to/VTK-build .. # If VTK was installed from sources
make
```

The make should create three executables: `rofi-test`, `rofi-vis` and `rofi-reconfig`.

## Visualizer

The tool can visualize configurations, create animations and save pictures.

The input file contains representation of one or more configurations separated by an empty line.

You can choose whether to visualize model(s) of configuration(s) in 3D on the screen 
or save picture(s) of configuration(s) using `-s` or `--save` option. You can also specify a path where to save the pictures using `-p` or `--path` option.

If there are more configurations in the input file, you can choose `-a` or `--animation` option which will generete smoother changes between the configurations. If you do not want to animate it, you have to use `-n` or `--many` to specify that there are more than one configuration in the file.

If the animation is chosen, you can specify:

* framerate of the animation using one of the `-f` or `--framerate` options
* angle velocity of modules using one of the `-v`, `--velocity`, `-g` or `--angle` options
* reconnection time / number of pictures using one of the `-t`, `--recTime`, `-e` or `--recPics` options 

You can also specify resolution (or size) of the result (on the screen or saved picture) using 
`-r`, `--resolution` option in format numberxnumber (e.g. 1920x1080). 
If the save option is used, you can specify magnification (`-m`, `--magnify`). E.g. magnification=2 and 
resolution=1920x1080 will create a picture with resolution 3840x2160.

You can also specify settings for camera in a separate file. 
The file can contain following lines:

* `CP x y z`: camera position or
* `CPM xs xe ys ye zs ze`: camera position move xstart -> xend, ystart -> yend, zstart -> zend
* `CF x y z`: camera focal point or
* `CFM xs xe ys ye zs ze`: camera focal point move xstart -> xend, ystart -> yend, zstart -> zend
* `CV x y z`: camera view up or
* `CVM xs xe ys ye zs ze`: camera view up move xstart -> xend, ystart -> yend, zstart -> zend

Default values use mass center of the first configuration. 

```
RoFI Visualizer: Tool for visualization of configurations and creating animations.
Usage:
  rofi-vis [OPTION...]

  -h, --help            Print help
  -i, --input arg       Input config file
  -s, --save            Save picture to file
  -a, --animation       Create animation from configurations
  -c, --camera arg      Camera settings file
  -p, --path arg        Path where to save pictures
  -f, --framerate arg   Number of pictures per second
  -v, --velocity arg    Maximal angular velocity in 1°/s
  -g, --angle arg       Maximal angle diff in ° per picture
  -t, --recTime arg     Time in seconds for reconnection
  -e, --recPics arg     Number of pictures for reconnection
  -n, --many            Many configurations in one file
  -r, --resolution arg  Size of the window on the screen or resolution of the
                        saved picture in format numberxnumber
  -m, --magnify arg     Magnification of saved pictures
```

Examples:

```
./rofi-vis -i ../data/test.in
```

Opens a new window with a visualization of the configuration.

```
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -s --path ../data/res -a 
```

Generates some intersteps (animation) and saves pictures to the ../data/res directory.

```
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -s --path ../data/res -a -c ../data/1.cam
```

Same as above with specified camera settings.

```
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -s --path ../data/res -a -c ../data/1.cam --velocity 15 --recTime 2
```

## Reconfiguration

The tool allows to choose from different algorithms for the path computation.

You can choose the algorithm using `--alg` option with two possible arguments:
 
* `bfs`: BFS algorithm with given step size and parallel bound.
* `astar`: A* algorithm with given step size, parallel bound and evaluation function. 
* `rrt`: RRT algorithm with given step size.

More algorithms will be implemented in the future.

If the A* algorithm is chosen, you can choose from different evaluation functions:

* `trivial`: all configurations have value 1 (default).
* `dMatrix`: module matrices difference. Sum of differences of actual matrices from goal matrices.
* `dCenter`: module center difference. Sum of differences of actual centers from goal centers.
* `dJoint`: joint difference. Sum of differences of actual joints from goal joints. 
* `dAction`: action difference. Count of rotation actions and reconnection actions needed from 
actual configuration to goal configuration.

You can choose the step size (default 90), which defines the size of rotation of 
any joint in one reconfiguration step. Note that decreasing the step size will significantly 
increase the run time of the algorithm. Found solutions should be potentially longer.

You can choose how many actions can occur in parallel, which will allow more rotations 
and reconnections in one step. Note that increasing the paralle bound will significantly 
increase the runtime of the algorithm. Found solutions should be potentially shorter.  

```
./rofi-reconfig --help
RoFI Reconfiguration: Tool for computing a reconfiguration path.
Usage:
  rofi-reconfig [OPTION...]

  -h, --help          Print help
  -i, --init arg      Initial configuration file
  -g, --goal arg      Goal configuration file
  -s, --step arg      Rotation angle step size in range <0,90>
  -a, --alg arg       Algorithm for reconfiguration: bfs, astar, rrt
  -e, --eval arg      Evaluation function for A* algorithm: dMatrix, dCenter,
                      dJoint, dAction, trivial
  -p, --parallel arg  How many parallel actions are allowed: <1,...>
```

Examples:

```
./rofi-reconfig -i ../data/init.in -g ../data/goal.in
```

```
./rofi-reconfig -i ../data/init.in -g ../data/goal.in --alg astar --eval dCenter 
```

Writes a sequence of configurations starting with the initial and ending with the goal configuration.

## How to visualize the result of reconfiguration

```
./rofi-reconfig -i ../data/init.in -g ../data/goal.in > ../data/res.out
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -m
```

Writes a sequence of configurations to a separate file, then draws many `-m` configurations from one file. 

## How to create a video

Use script videoCreator.sh in visualizer directory.

```
./rofi-reconfig -i ../data/init.in -g ../data/goal.in > ../data/res.out
./rofi-vis -i ../data/res.out -a -s --path ../data/res -c ../data/1.cam
cd ../visualizer
./videoCreator.sh -o ../data/animation/output.mp4
```

Writes sequence of configurations to a separate file, then saves pictures to ../data/res directory
and creates video output.mp4 in data/animation directory. 

You can specify the directory with saved pictures, framerate of the animation,
path + filename of the output animation and whether to clean the input directory - 
delete the pictures.


Options: 

```
  -h, --help         Prints help
  -i, --input        Directory with pictures to be animated
  -o, --output       Output file (path/videoName.mp4)
  -f, --framerate    Number of pictures per second
  -d, --delete       Delete pictures in the input directory
```

Examples: 

Spicify output file and input directory:

```
./videoCreator.sh -o ../data/animation/output.mp4 -i ../data/res
```

Specify output file, input directory and framerate:

```
./videoCreator.sh -o ../data/animation/output.mp4 -i ../data/res -f 24
```

Specify output file and delete pictures in input directory

```
./videoCreator.sh -o ../data/animation/output.mp4 -d
```
